---
title: "Generating Feedback-Ladders for Logical Errors in Programming using Large Language Models"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-07-edm
excerpt: 'Using large language models (LLMs) to generate a "feedback-ladder," providing multiple levels of feedback for programming assignments based on student submissions. The approach aims to offer progressively detailed feedback while considering the learning context of students, addressing limitations of existing methods that provide overly direct, one-size-fits-all feedback.'
date: 2024-07-01
venue: 'Educational Data Mining'
paperurl: 'https://educationaldatamining.org/edm2024/proceedings/2024.EDM-posters.114/2024.EDM-posters.114.pdf'
citation: 'Hasnain Heickal and Andrew Lan. "Generating Feedback-Ladders for Logical Errors in Programming using Large Language Models." Educational Data Mining 2024, 947-951.'
---

## ABSTRACT
In feedback generation for logical errors in programming assignments, large language model (LLM)-based methods have shown great promise. These methods ask the LLM to generate feedback given the problem statement and a student's (buggy) submission. There are several issues with these types of methods. First, the generated feedback messages are often too direct in revealing the error in the submission and thus diminish valuable opportunities for the student to learn. Second, they do not consider the student's learning context, i.e., their previous submissions, current knowledge, etc. Third, they are not layered since existing methods use a single, shared prompt for all student submissions. In this paper, we explore using LLMs to generate a ``feedback-ladder'', i.e., multiple levels of feedback for the same problem-submission pair. We evaluate the quality of the generated feedback-ladder via a user study with students, educators, and researchers. We have observed diminishing effectiveness for higher-level feedback and higher-scoring submissions overall in the study. In practice, our method enables teachers to select an appropriate level of feedback to show to a student based on their personal learning context, or in a progressive manner to go more detailed if a higher-level feedback fails to correct the student's error.
